# This week 7 - overview:

## This week we will continue a study of methods. Remember that methods are used to modularize specific tasks and actions within a program. A method should accomplish one task and do it well and the use of methods makes it easy to write code for actions that will be required in multiple parts of a program as well as by other programs. Writing these tasks as methods and maintaining a standard library of methods makes reusability of code a reality. The using statements we see for various programs and examples provide your program with already written code, methods, and functionality that makes it easier to write our programs without repeating the same code segments over and over. Of particular interest this week is passing arguments to methods by reference and by value. By default values passed as arguments to the method parameter list are passed by value; a copy of the value is passed to the method rather than an actual variable declared in the calling method. This means that any changes made to the value while it is being used in the method have no effect on the actual value contained in memory. The problem of only having one return value and the need to be able to change multiple variable values in a method are addressed by reference variables or values. Passing by reference means that a reference memory address for each referenced variable is passed to the method. Because a memory location is passed, the method can directly affect the values of the variables passed by reference at their memory location. As always we will also build on the previously covered content and explore some additional ways to build C# programs.

